Advertise your product or brand here
contact www.OpenSubtitles.org today
This is a Neanderthal.
He looks pretty nice doesn't he?
But he's stupid.
He's a stupid savage,
growling and barbaric. A cave man.
As the conventional knowledge claims.
Are members of it today
Sigma Kai in our room?
Yes man.
How do you feel as a Kappa Alpha Theta
members you call cavemen?
That's an insult, isn't it?
But let's go back to our Neanderthal friends.
Evolved from our common ancestors,
"EVOLUTION OF NEANDERTHALERS"
- three to four hundred thousand years ago.
We know they were stocky.
Strong people with a very strong construction.
"NEANDERTHALERS VS HOMO SAPIENS"
- Physically exactly a caveman.
What happened to them?
The modern human with our superior
intelligence has competed them away
and driven them to extinction.
This makes perfect sense, doesn't it?
I say that this is completely incorrect.
Fossil remains were discovered in 1856
for the first time from a human-like being ...
"NEANDER DAL"
- in the Neandertal in Germany.
Hence the name Neanderthal.
That was in the Darwin era. It was
also the Sir Francis Galton era.
Galton was an exceptional one
man, a genius.
His greatest contribution to future
generations is the Eugenics.
He and his followers thought
that based on one's appearance ...
his level of intelligence or civilization
could be determined.
I wonder if you can guess which breed
Galton thought it was the most intelligent
It turns out that Sir Francis
was very biased,
which blinded him for the evidence.
He was a white European man,
so he stated that white Europeans do it
the pinnacle of human development.
Actually ... they are not.
Okay, listen to this.
Genetic studies show
that everyone outside of Sub-Saharan Africa
between 1 and 4 percent
Neanderthal genes.
Yes, people, that means
what you think it means. Yes.
Do you now feel better about yourself,
Sigma Kai?
Yes.
Could it be that we are dying out the Neanderthal
have not caused with our superior functions ...
but that we might have those traits
have taken over from them?
That's an interesting question,
but we will never know the answer.
Unless we are a Neanderthal
meet in person.
But that is impossible ...
Or not?
Coincidentally, the world's only non-fossilized ones
remains of a Neanderthal
present here on this campus,
across the square.
These were discovered by my boss,
Dr. Godwin Thomas.
Dr. Thomas called him William,
to William King, the Irish
Natural scientist,
the first scientist to be Neanderthals
recognized as a separate species.
We learned a lot from William, but we
have not yet exploited its real potential.
It wouldn't be great
if anyone can find a way
to use his DNA to make a
clone living Neanderthal?
Is that a crazy idea?
Probably.
But don't you want to meet your cousin William?
- Yes.
Me too.
All right, that's it for today.
Read chapters three and four
from the book of Rodgers and Jacobs
and I see you all
next Thursday.
I know how to do it.
- How should you do that?
- How to clone a Neanderthal.
Really? And where does a student go
like you gained that experience?
I'm not actually a student.
I'm a doctor.
I have a PhD in reproductive
endocrinology and bio-engineering.
Oh ... um ... Do you want a glass of wine?
"Provisional sequence Neanderthal Genome"
- Well, the basic procedure ...
is one-on-one cloning.
We start with it
to remove cell nuclear DNA
from the receiving Gay
sapiens donor egg cell,
and then we replace it with DNA
taken from William's monster.
But that is not nearly enough.
- Including mitochondria?
- Yes. Otherwise it will be a messy event,
Are you telling me that you should
copy the entire protein profile?
what can be acceptable to sheep,
but certainly not for the human species.
That seems to be a difficult job.
Yes, but I said it would be possible.
Not easy, or cheap.
Well then we can get started better.
- What?
- You know you're crazy?
I know, I know.
What's the meaning of this?
Why Neanderthals?
What does that yield?
I want to show you something.
Here we are.
Batman's cave. Yes, baby.
This is my kingdom.
It happens here.
Come on.
- Can I touch this?
- Yes go ahead.
One of these is made by Homo sapiens,
the other by Neanderthals.
- No.
- Which is what?
- Yes.
- Wow.
This is amazing.
Well, imagine how much you can learn
by our most related cousin
to bring it back to life.
No, our equal.
He alone can tell us
who we are and who we are not.
This is the ontology part of paleontology.
The study of existence and becoming.
I think...
I think we need him
to better understand ourselves.
You are a very interesting one
person, dr. Reid.
And you too, Dr. Sullivan.
- Yes.
- Godwin? With Bob Clayborn.
Good evening, Bob.
Godwin, I'm struggling with a difficult problem,
and I would like to know your opinion.
- Okay, how can I help you?
- Of course I am talking about the Neanderthal project
Bob. I really don't think so
I am the one who must give his opinion.
I'm not asking you for anything negative
to say about your colleagues.
I only need your vision.
How? What can I say?
Barbara and Julian
are an academic super couple.
Three groundbreaking articles in two
year time. Their work is amazing.
Well, I could lose them if
faculty members when I stop the project.
But that is not my biggest concern.
I have a dilemma.
I have to decide if I have them
whether or not it will give green light
to take the final step.
Have you submitted this to Rich Rowley?
As a bioethics specialist, I think
this idea horrible.
He called it a fairground attraction.
- What about Nida Burang?
- She wants to continue the project.
She is convinced that the investigation
will have great benefits.
Please, Godwin, I ...
I'll call you as my friend.
I can no longer postpone the decision.
How shall I formulate it?
I admit that I have my doubts
at Mary Shelley's
Frankenstein character of this project.
Great doubts.
I understand your point.
Okay, thank you, Godwin, for your sincerity.
Good night.
Let's finish the project anyway.
Are you serious?
- Who will carry the fetus?
- I'm going to do that.
- Wow.
- Let's have a child.
"Welcome to Nevada
The Silver State "
Barbara, never promise
To kick Julian's 'Blue Suede Shoes' ...
- and always too 'Love Him Tender'?
- I promise.
And you, Julian, never promise Barbara
leaving the 'Heartbreak Hotel' ...
- and always be her 'Burning Love'?
- I promise.
Then I declare you now
to husband and wife.
You better kiss the bride now,
young man.
You are doing great.
- Sorry ...
- The baby is coming.
I want you to squeeze very hard
at the next woe.
- Okay?
- Keep breathing, ready?
- Yes.
- Pressing, pressing.
That's how he goes.
To breathe. To breathe.
No, no, press, press, press.
It worked well done.
What is it?
It is a boy.
Congratulations, mother and father.
- He's healthy.
- (What the hell is that?)
You did a great job.
- Is everything alright?
- Yes.
Yes?
Here he is.
He is beautiful.
It is a well-built boy.
- Julian?
- Barbara Sullivan and I have a child.
A healthy boy from
nine pounds and seven ounces.
Congratulations.
Bob, I'm really sorry I am you
put in this situation.
There will be tomorrow morning at ten o'clock
be held at a press conference.
This explains it all.
I gave him a clear assignment
to stop the project,
but he used instead
university funds to continue it.
We need that bastard
dismiss and sue.
If we sue him,
he just takes his Neanderthal with him
to one of the dozens
universities with a lot of money,
who will gladly hire him.
You would think it's cloning
of people is against the law.
- Well, not in Nevada.
- Nevada.
The university does not own
the DNA this thing is made of?
This makes it our property, right?
Well, the 13th amendment to the constitution
suggests the opposite.
And what is the 13th amendment?
- That which forbids slavery.
- Right.
And he's not a thing, George.
- What about our liability?
- We are fully responsible.
Serious.
What if he grows up and becomes violent?
Resources from the university
used to create it.
So whether he stays here or not, we wear
the responsibility for what happens.
Jesus.
- If you allow me, Bob.
- Hmmm.
This will be worldwide news tomorrow morning.
If we work out and sue Reid,
we bear full responsibility,
but without the benefits.
On the other hand, if we embrace it, we get the
publicity and the ability to control it.
So what do you think Bob?
This is William, a healthy one
Neanderthal baby one week old.
Fertilized and reproduced using
transfer of a somatic cell nucleus
with Neanderthal DNA.
This scientific breakthrough was possible,
because unlike ordinary fossils
William's tissue samples
have been preserved,
including intact sets
of the DNA in the cell nucleus.
Dr. Barbara Sullivan
that you see here with William,
has used a lot of groundbreaking
developed.
She also carried the fetus
until the moment of birth.
- Dr. Reid, so he's a clone.
- In fact, yes.
Professor, don't most clones die?
So far, yes.
But we have new replacement methods
developed for the DNA of the mitochondria
next to the DNA of the cell nucleus.
- What does that mean?
- That means he's fine.
- What about diseases?
We have indicators that indicate that
William's immune system will be very strong,
but we take all possible precautions.
That's why you see photos instead of actually seeing them.
What about the moral aspect?
Explain to me how this is
is immoral in any way.
Are you a proud father, Dr. Reid?
I have to state clearly
that there is no genetic link
of any kind between William
and myself or Dr. Sullivan.
But I am very proud.
Yes, really proud.
There are many people
I have to thank.
First, my esteemed colleague, my dear
girlfriend and my wife, Dr. Barbara Sullivan.
And also my boss,
Dr. Godwin Thomas.
Her brilliant fieldwork yielded
the Neanderthal monster,
from which the DNA was extracted.
And Wallace University
President, Bob Clayborn.
He was a constant source of support
for this historical project.
Thank you, Bob.
Congratulations Bob,
we have become famous.
Let me make something clear, Julian.
This project is supervised by
a committee led by Godwin.
You are not allowed to do anything
without her and my permission.
I understand that.
- Julian. Julian.
- Hey.
Congratulations.
Congratulations to Barbara and to William.
Thank you, Godwin.
Thanks.
- I'll be there if you need me.
- Thanks.
He said...
that the key is under the doormat.
You can come home
anytime you want.
- I love you.
- I love you too.
Dad?
- Hello, William.
- Hey.
I'm Sara.
Nice to meet you.
I've heard a lot about you.
Julian is at a staff meeting.
But he would eat for it
to be at home.
- Do you live here?
- Yes.
- Shall I clean this up?
- I'll wear them.
Thanks.
This ... thanks.
Ooh. I see you one
have a healthy appetite, William.
His body weight and metabolism
require 20% more calories than with us.
And a higher protein content.
- The chicken is delicious.
- Thanks.
Listen...
I wanted to say that I am proud of you.
And what you are trying to do.
Thank you, Dad.
It won't be easy.
You will have to work hard at it
get it done, just like me.
- There is nothing free in this world.
- I understand.
You can do it, William.
I know you can do it.
You are smart.
And ultimately you are also a Reid.
We do not give up.
Yes.
That's my son.
Well, we'll start tomorrow.
Good night, I love you.
I love you too, Dad.
Answer B.
No, William, it's A.
Don't worry, don't worry.
So that's 23 for math
and 18 for English.
About the same as when you got it
took the exam. When was that? March?
Not bad.
- Not good.
- Not bad.
I see you working hard.
Don't let my presence bother you.
Thanks.
- See you at dinner.
- Bye, Dad.
What was your score?
I think my average was 34.
That is a very high score.
Yes, I was completely obsessed.
I did nothing but study.
What are you doing now?
I'm still studying.
I try to finish my thesis.
What is it about?
- You really want to know?
- Yes.
The title is "Hyper-complex iterations of
generalized Mandelbrot collections ".
- What does that mean?
- I get that.
- You really want to know?
- Yes.
It is rather difficult to explain.
Can we go into it another time?
Yes.
Well it seems that it is English
the hardest thing for you.
So let's take a look at that.
Why don't you read that out loud?
- This?
- Yes.
"The whole world is a stage and all men
and women in it are only actors. "
"Each of them has its own
outputs and its inputs. "
"Every person plays many roles
during his life. "
What does the stage symbolize
this passage of Shakespeare?
- What do you think?
- The stage is the same as the world.
It is not the same, but symbolizes it.
The stage is the stage and the world is the
world. They are two different things.
Yes, they are two
different things, but ...
Why do we symbolize one with something else?
Why can't we name things by their names?
Well, that's called a metaphor.
then maybe we come to one
deeper truth about the world?
No, I think we are further from the
get rid of truth. Not closer.
Well, that may be so, but they ask you
to interpret abstract text ideas.
I understand what they are asking for
but I just don't like it.
Maybe this is a Neanderthal thing.
Okay, so ...
why don't we look at this?
"Twinkel, twinkel, little star ..."
Are members of it today
Sigma Kai in the hall?
Let me ask you a question.
What do you think of it as the Theta members?
you call cavemen?
That's an insult, isn't it?
But not anymore.
Thanks to William.
"How much do I wonder what you are ..."
"GOD IS THE CREATOR OF LIFE"
- It became a crazy state for a while ...
"LET THE DEAD REST"
- but as always ...
"NO CLONING"
- attracted public attention ...
"EMBRYOS NO LAB RATS. STOP PLAYING FOR GOD"
- quickly to other stories.
I think people were disappointed then
it turned out that he was not a dangerous savage.
Take a look.
"High above the world ..."
The traditional story that goes around,
is that we, Homo sapiens,
our Neanderthal family members by our
drove higher intelligence to extinction.
With every day spent on William's study,
we get more reasons
to doubt this story.
"Like a diamond in the sky ..."
We have a close eye on William
held on the basis of a set of metrics.
As I predicted,
William developed faster ...
and showed one
equal or higher intelligence
compared to children
from Homo sapiens.
"Twinkel, twinkel, little star ..."
William has the language at a very young
acquired age and developed very quickly.
- Mom.
- Oh my God.
- Julian.
- What happened?
He said "mom."
His ability to learn, his vocabulary
and his innate understanding of grammar ...
are all equal to or better than that of
children of Homo sapiens at the same age.
"How much do I wonder what you are ..."
Just hold on, William.
I love you baby, you're doing well.
I'm going to talk to your doctor.
Mom. Come here.
He is too hot, we have to do something.
We tried antibiotics,
and antiviral agents and steroids.
We can do nothing more.
We wanted to get to the lab
keep the operating room level sterile,
- but no protocol was sufficient.
- Mom.
I need you.
Please come here. Mom.
He needs me.
-You can't go in like that.
- Barbara, Barbara.
Release.
Hello Darling.
It turns out it's William's immune system
extraordinarily strong and adaptive,
some promising medical applications
for the rest of us.
There is much to learn from William
about our body and brain,
and about how we are now.
But more about that next week.
Thanks everyone.
"Twinkel, twinkel, small star"
"How much I wonder what you are."
Please, Barbara, listen, this is madness.
We have a professional disagreement,
but that is no reason to
to make our marriage clap.
It is much more than a professional
dispute. It is about our principles.
Well, then ... so I suppose that means
that you have high principles and I don't.
Listen, I ... I just want with it
continue the project according to the protocol.
There is no problem
that requires a solution.
William is happy and healthy
in the lab.
- It's a cage and he deserves better than that.
- A cage?
You have contributed to the design
of all aspects of his care.
You have his complete genome. You need
not having him there in person.
No, you know that's not true.
We have to see how his genes are during
express its development.
Listen, Barbara, it's our responsibility
to study him there as well as possible.
Which study?
You have already proven your point.
He is just as human as you are.
Nothing can be learned anymore.
What happened to my
brilliant science partner?
I'm a mother.
I have to take care of my son.
He is not your son.
Barbara, Barbara, wait.
Please, Barbara, I'm sorry ...
Damn.
But what about media attention?
I'm worried of course, but ...
We have had almost two years
no longer receive press questions.
I think the novelty
is worn off.
He is just so remarkably normal.
Over time it is
no longer such an interesting story.
That can change in an instant.
What about your own work?
Okay, I will keep my academic position
I continue to do part-time research,
but I am losing my seniority
and my chance of a permanent appointment.
Sorry.
Well, there is an existing protocol,
that I have to make a proposal
to the supervisory committee.
- You preside.
- I preside.
Thank you, Godwin.
- I want to see it.
- Be careful.
Yes.
Yes, we are going there.
Well, this is the clinic where I'm going to work.
We will live in that apartment.
Up there.
This is the kitchen.
The living room is inside.
Yes, there is enough space
to run around.
Where is my room?
Hey, easy, William.
- Is this my room?
- Yes.
- What do you think about it?
- It's great, Mom.
It is really amazing.
I just wish Dad were here.
He comes to visit us.
He will actually come here on Monday
for your first school day.
I think we are here very
will be happy.
Dr. Reid, I think you
the island community
very tolerant and
diversity-welcoming.
Dr. Sullivan and I already have
long discussions
about William's special circumstances,
but for you we can discuss ...
- What circumstances?
- I mean, his allo-human personality.
- What?
- His allo-human personality.
I do not know what that means.
Dr. Reid, William is a Neanderthal.
William is a highly intelligent
human child.
I expect you to treat him
just like any other student.
That is hypocritical, that you state that.
We treat every child equally while we
value each one as a unique individual.
- How do you do both things at the same time?
- That's the challenge, right?
"Good morning everyone, how are you?"
"Good morning everyone,
good morning everyone"
"Good morning everyone, how are you?"
"Good morning, William, how are you?"
"Good morning, Jackie, how are you?"
"Good morning, Ruby, Good morning, Nelson."
"Good morning, Heather ..."
You can put your personal feelings aside
and consider that this can be good for him?
"Good morning, Morrison,
Good morning Marcus, how are you? "
"Good morning, William, how are you?"
- Thanks.
"Good morning, Jackie, how are you?"
- How was your first day of school?
- It was amazing.
- My best friend's name is Moch.
- Moosh?
- Moch. Funny name.
- It's an abbreviation for Morrison.
- I get it.
- There is a lizard in a cage and a fish.
Yes that are they.
May I please
more meatloaf?
Yes of course.
Wow, you are a bottomless pit.
- Please.
- Thanks.
You're welcome.
Okay, I'll take this.
- I just want a little bit of you.
- Don't worry.
A little bit ... Just a little bit.
Hey, look, what was that?
I'll show you some pictures.
And I want you to tell me
what's the first thing you're thinking of, okay?
Cool.
Rabbit.
Cat.
Penguin.
Sunset.
- That was a good answer.
I also made more difficult cards
and I want to see how you do it, okay?
Glad.
- Good.
Sad.
Angry.
Well done.
B ... Afraid.
I love you, daddy.
I'm very proud of you.
You have a bright future
do you know?
Top marks at school, scholarship at Wallace
University and then graduation.
Maybe you will someday
a professor like me.
- Yet?
- Right.
I'm proud of you.
Well done, son.
Here you are.
Sorry, I didn't mean to interrupt you,
but I think we have to work.
- Yes.
- Okay.
"This is a valley of ash,"
"a fantastic farm
where ash grows like weeds "
"to mountain ranges, hills and
grotesque gardens. "
"Where ash takes the forms of houses,
chimneys and rising smoke, "
"and finally through an excellent one
effort shaped like ash gray men. "
Do you know the source of this quote?
- "The Great Gatsby".
- Well done.
So what does "The Valley of Ash" symbolize?
It symbolizes ashes.
Come on William
You promised to try.
- The valley of ash.
- Okay.
Death and dissolution.
Gatsby's birthplace.
The past he is ashamed of,
and is afraid to return to.
Good.
- That's what they want me to say.
- They want your own interpretation.
- No, they don't want him.
- William ...
What if you were a happy ash girl,
with your happy lover of ash?
You like ash and your city is made of it.
Ash symbolizes health and happiness.
Well, then we have it
about literary irony or something.
No, we both know I have a bad one
get a rating if I answer that way.
There is a correct interpretation of it
the text. But who decides?
These symbols and metaphors are fake.
Why is this so important to you?
Because I feel like something
is taken away from me.
Good.
See, that's the caveman.
You're gonna get a beating.
Come back, caveman.
Wait a minute, we just want to talk to you.
What is going on?
He cave boy.
Why are you in such a hurry?
Come on.
Come on man.
We just want to talk to you.
Shit.
Get him. Hold him, hold him.
Ahhh.
Okay, cave boy, let's handle this.
- He's dangerous.
- Darlene, I can't file a complaint
every time two boys get into a fight.
He wasn't arguing.
My son attacked that horror.
- He practically broke his hand.
- Nothing's broken.
What difference does it make
whether it is broken or not?
- I know William wants to apologize to your son.
- I don't want a damn apology.
- I want to have that thing locked up.
- Okay, okay, we're done here, okay?
- Don't you do anything?
- I'm not going to do anything.
- Really?
- We're done here.
- Wow.
- Go home.
- It's over, go home, okay?
- Good.
Wow, Jerry.
Thank you, Jerry, it won't happen again.
- They said you started the fight.
- That's not true, they followed me.
- Why did they follow you?
- I do not know.
They called me a caveman.
William, these people ...
Some people don't understand. We can
don't expect them to understand.
But you can never do such a thing again.
Never.
Whatever they said,
you just have to walk away from them, okay?
Do you promise me this?
- I promise.
- You are not a caveman.
- I know that, I'm Neanderthal.
That's true.
That means that you are very special.
"Seattle Daily News:The
Neanderthal returns "
"Neanderthal clone cause of
ethical controversy and protests "
"Hundreds gathered in front of the town hall to fight
against what they called the end of our civilization. "
"Neanderthals:40,000
extinct years ago "
"There are indications that they were much stronger
than modern man, especially arms and hands "
"Studies show that some of them are red or
could have had blond hair and fair skin "
"Neanderthal in popular culture"
"Neanderthals usually presented
as stupid and beastly creatures, "
"with an emphasis on hair and
rough, dark tinted skin. "
"Neanderthal:Image Search"
"Where the stone age
meets the Rock era "
Encino Man:a great new comedy
in Full NeanderVision.
"Crossing with modern people.
Main article:Neanderthal crossings "
"Extinction hypotheses.
Main article:Neanderthal extinction "
Here he comes.
- You can't catch me.
- Yes, I can.
William, it's dinner time.
- Wow. I'm hungry.
- You are always hungry.
- Who is that?
- Oh, that's Ted.
- Who is Ted?
- Mom's friend.
- Hello, Ted.
- William.
Hey.
Come on everybody.
The lasagna is on the table.
- Lasagna.
- Go ahead.
What? Come on, dad, please.
I completely forgot about me
attend a graduate seminar.
- Dad...
- Next time, buddy, okay?
Okay, see you in two weeks.
- Good evening.
- What time did he say he was here?
- Three o'clock.
Sorry, William.
- Hey.
- You must Dr. Be Sullivan.
- Yes.
I'm Jacqueline Deval.
I'm here to work with William.
- Where is Dr. Reid?
- He has a conflicting appointment now.
He asked me to do the tests. I'm
a graduate student in his lab.
He didn't tell you I'd come.
- No, he didn't.
Hello Julian,
what the hell are you doing?
What do you mean? I mean, you send
a stranger without informing us,
instead of being there for your son.
No, I will not invite her
for dinner with Ted.
What do you think I'm talking about?
You can't be a bigger bastard.
Okay, let's get started.
And was it horrible or horrible?
Terrible.
Horrible.
Judy.
- How did it go?
- Good.
- Excuse me.
- Sorry.
Listen, I was too busy
with studying for the test,
so I had no more time
to practice my texts.
Do you think you can come on Sunday?
to practice them with me?
- Yes.
- No, you can't.
- We're going camping.
- Yes.
- No.
- Oh, okay.
But you will come to the rehearsal session
on Monday, right?
- Yes.
- Good.
Okidoki.
- I hope you come back alive.
- Yes.
- Well done, dude.
Okay, brother William, how do you like this joke. Get what
you like crossing an elephant with a rhino?
- I do not know.
- An oil horn.
- Do you get it?
- It's funny, dude.
- No.
- Okay.
- Nosefant.
- What?
A nose fan.
- Is that funny?
- Yes, yes, that's funny.
- That's a good joke, I liked it.
- Yes man.
Is your mother already texting you?
We finally have you
got off the island, man.
Since when have you been there?
Since we moved here,
when I was five years old.
- Damn.
- That's madness.
Indeed.
You must let go of the beast.
Free the beast.
- Will.
- Yes?
Have you heard of that stewardess?
who ran backwards against the propeller?
- No.
- Disaster.
- I don't understand.
- "Dis-assed-her". She lost her ass.
But that is very sad.
Just put that in it
and stick it in the ground and ...
Ok, thanks for the help.
What are you doing? You should have them
before putting them in the tent.
I'm going to write my college essay about
setting up this ridiculous tent.
I think we do the whole thing
have inside out.
- Really?
- Look at this.
- This is ridiculous.
- I give up.
And that thing must be here.
You see?
- Can you write the college essay for me?
- No.
- Which universities will you apply for?
- A few places ...
- Oregon State University and Evergreen.
- And I'm going to sign up for the University of Video Games
- You must have a back-up university.
- Cross-border University?
- University of higher education?
- Exactly.
- You're going to Wallace University, right?
- If I am allowed.
- You will come in.
- You are the ultimate example of positive discrimination.
No not true.
He is about the best student in school.
- Judy is the best student at school.
- Judy is the best looking student at school.
I think he blushes.
Oh, Will.
Listen Will, how do fish get high?
- You never stop joking.
- Sea weed.
- Do you understand?
- No.
That was a good joke.
- How do you like it here, Will?
- I love it.
- Namaste.
- Wow. You scared me an accident.
- Goodbye.
- Hey.
This is a peaceful place.
- Do you want to join us?
- Cool.
- Man.
- What are these?
- Mushrooms.
- Completely organic, completely safe.
I thank you for that.
- No thanks.
- Thanks.
what are you doing?
Yo. Marcus.
The main reason to go camping
is to leave your parents at home, dude.
It's cool, man.
- Yes, dude, take as much as you want.
- Thanks.
Just like popcorn.
So you are sitting
in high school?
- The high school's cool.
- High school is not cool.
Yes.
And what are you doing?
We make jewelry from
organic fibers and sea shells,
and we sell them up
festivals and concerts.
- That is cool. Do you earn a living with that?
- No man.
We are not trying to earn a living,
but we just live, you understand?
This is one of the pieces that we have
made. They are made entirely from hemp.
- You are beautiful.
- He's a Neanderthal.
- Marcus. What the hell are you doing, man?
- Is it a secret?
No.
You are that young man from the university.
Yes.
This is cool.
This is so cool, man.
- Thanks.
- Yes.
Wow.
- Would you ever go back?
- We just got here.
Back ... back, do you understand what I mean?
Go back to your time.
He is not a time traveler.
I'm not feeling well.
It's okay, man.
It's okay, that's a natural feeling.
Just breathe in until it's over.
Yes.
Then go there.
This is not cool, man.
Not cool.
- "What did you think she wouldn't notice?"
- "I didn't think about it at all."
"Typically a man."
No, you only repeat that sentence
"She certainly noticed."
Right, damn it.
- So you say ...
- "Did you think she wouldn't notice?"
"I didn't think about it at all."
"She certainly noticed."
- You say...
- "I didn't think you'd mind."
- Right.
- This starts the music.
This is going to be disastrous.
I always forget my texts.
You will do well, Judy.
Just improvise if you forget.
But then the band doesn't know
when they have to start playing.
You are so calm.
How do you do that?
Be careful.
"From time to time"
"I notice that I pretend ..."
"You will hold my hand."
"And then you whisper to me
words of love. "
"From time to time"
"I notice that I dream about him"
"He is holding my hand
against his heart forever. "
"From time to time"
"she won't see me
like more than a friend "
"From time to time."
You were great.
Well done.
It was amazing.
Judy.
His grades are good, but he
has difficulty with standardized tests.
- What is going on?
- The problem is not the intelligence,
but his cognitive patterns do not come
corresponds to one of the known models.
It's ... it's unique.
Of course intelligence is ultimately
only to measure what intelligence tests.
OK.
What about intensive guidance?
Yes, I definitely recommend it.
Especially if he is in the future again
submit an application to the university.
Excuse me, did you say resubmit?
He has ... withdrawn his applications.
- I assumed you were familiar with this decision.
- Ho, ho, ho, moment.
Did you first ask William about it?
I can not believe this.
Well, what will William do then?
after graduation?
He was offered a part-time job.
- True?
- Iron shop
Okay, I want William
comes to live with me after graduation.
You just want to return it
to the lab to perform tests.
I want him to live in the real world
and stops hiding.
Do you really think Wallace University
is the real world?
Is it less real than that ridiculous
island where you keep him imprisoned?
With false lighthouses and on pets
looking T-shirt stores and all that nonsense?
I'm trying to do that
what is best for him.
No, you don't.
because you like to play family
with that colorless Ted.
Since he was born, you tried him
to prove something about yourself,
Nobody in the world is left with anything more
facing challenges than William.
Well, I think the question should be
what is best for William,
and how he develops as a person.
In that respect I think
that he is doing fantastic.
Either way, the decision is not
to you. Neither of you.
William turns 18 in a few weeks.
- Brother William, I have a joke for you.
- What?
Why did the cookie go to the doctor?
I honestly don't understand why
you find these things funny.
Because he felt broken.
Don't you understand him?
- Do you understand him? Broken?
- I understand, but I don't understand.
Many have already received a reply,
Jackson goes to the UCLA,
Ellie to Evergreen,
and Judy goes to Columbia.
Judy goes to Columbia.
Oregon State University ...
I only got rejections.
My parents went crazy.
- Yes, backup university then ...
- I think so.
- Oregon State University.
- Yes, yes, should be good.
- Awesome.
- Thanks man.
- Backup university.
It is better to apply
to fill in ...
William, I want you for yourself
find a place in the world.
Going to college
like your classmates.
You have the capacities for it,
and I think you know that.
- He just wants you back in his lab.
- Yes, that's part of it.
- You don't have to be his lab rat.
- William, William ...
There are many areas
of promising new research ...
Even outside of work,
It might be the key to a new one
treatments that can help millions of people.
- Or not.
But we won't know
unless we try.
This is much bigger
then you and me, William.
I want to go to Wallace University,
- but as a student.
- I'll talk to the Dean of Admission ...
- No, dad.
- I'm sure we can arrange something.
- I ...
- What?
I want to earn it ...
Just like everyone else.
OK. I respect that.
If you achieve that, go with it
agree to participate in the study?
William, you have to
nothing to decide yet.
Yes.
Fantastic.
Oh, man, I'll help you get your scores
increase. It's going to be fun.
These are very good scores.
They really are.
Let's go for a walk.
Come on.
This is not your fault, William.
Julian is under great pressure.
Whose?
I do not know.
Every time I scored lower than a 10
my mother hit me with a ruler.
And then she cried afterwards.
My father worked day and night
to pay private teachers,
and the ballet lessons and all other lessons.
I hardly saw him.
They had a complete plan for it
my life, and that is why I hated them.
But I now know that
they just tried to help me.
- Without them I would not have been where I am now.
- Where are you now?
Where am I now?
Wow...
I try to complete my thesis,
who doesn't care.
And I have a relationship with one
dissatisfied father figure.
- And walking in the woods.
- With me.
- With you.
I like that part.
- I heard you like to sing.
- Yes.
What kind of songs do you like to sing?
Many species,
Songs of plays,
pop songs and rock songs.
- Songs of plays? Really?
- Yes.
I'm a little curious ...
They are often abstract texts
and full of metaphors.
- Doesn't that bother you?
- I just ignore that.
The rhythm and melody are
completely logical for me.
- I do not know.
- Come on.
- Please?
- Okay.
"From time to time"
"I notice that I pretend"
"You will hold my hand."
"Then you whisper
me words of love "
"From time to time"
"You will not see me as
more than a friend."
- Excuses.
- Sorry.
It's from my high school musical.
- Sing with me.
- No.
I told you I'm tone deaf.
"From time to time"
"You will not see me
like more than a friend "
"From time to time"
I'm here to pick you up at 12:00.
You bastards.
Take a look.
- Do you want water or tea?
- Water, please.
Well, what brings you here?
I'm not sure.
You found me, right?
Well, it looks like you found me.
No, I mean ... my remains
I understand.
Yes I did that.
Would you like to see it?
- Yes.
- Dr. Sullivan, hello.
I am Sara
Dr. Reid's girlfriend.
Apologies for disturbing you.
I stand in front of the exam center and I thought there
maybe a timetable error or something is made.
Is William with you?
No fossil in the normal sense of the word.
It is what is known as a swampy.
It is essentially a mummy.
Preserved by tannins and it
low oxygen content in the peat.
OK ...
- Like he wants to say something.
- I always thought so.
Maybe he's talking to you.
How did he die?
In fact, nobody knows for sure.
There was no trace of violence, or one
clear infection, illness or nutritional deficiency.
Maybe he's just
got stuck in the mud.
How did they become extinct?
People have many ideas,
but nobody knows for sure.
- What do you think it was?
- Well, that's just a guess,
but I think Homo sapiens
developed the ability to complex
create stories and believe in them.
Stories that can form connections
between larger groups than the family.
These groups have succeeded by their numeric
dominance over the Neanderthals
forcing them to live in less favorable habitats.
Which ultimately caused their extinction.
What kind of stories?
Stories such as why our tribe, our country
or our God is above that of others.
Why they should be prepared
to die in defense thereof.
- You mean religion?
- Yes.
And family stories.
Yes, family stories.
Is it intelligent to believe
in things that are not true?
Do you feel less intelligent?
Less human?
I feel that I am forced
to live in a less favorable habitat,
because of your numerical dominance.
William, you have a place here.
- Dr. Sullivan?
- Sara?
- Do you have contact with him?
- No you?
No, he doesn't answer his phone.
Was he upset this morning?
He was upset and nervous.
I am so sorry about all this.
This is not your fault.
He told me how friendly
you were. How nice he likes you.
I know that.
Why are you driving me?
not just going to college?
I'm going to talk to Julian.
And then you can search for him here.
This is a Neanderthal.
His name is William,
he is a stupid barbarian.
A growling savage, a caveman.
Not everyone at Wallace University
was happy to reproduce William.
But one must sometimes break the rules
to make progress.
The extensive study of the genes
and William's behavior
is one of the largest scientific
have been breakthroughs in modern times.
No, that's not it.
As you can see, William is recently
graduated from high school.
He is now preparing to participate
extensive studies here at Wallace University.
- No he does not.
- Excuse me?
I said he won't do that.
William, not now and not here.
- This is my job.
- Your job.
You know nothing about your work.
Your work has failed.
No, William.
- You failed.
- Hmm.
William.
Stop.
Hi, William.
Will ..., William, do you want to quit?
Please wait, William.
William, I'm sorry for what I said.
But you embarrassed me
for everyone in the room.
No, you did that yourself.
OK. Just go home and
we'll talk about it later.
We don't do that.
What did you say?
You are not my father.
William, William. Wait.
William, William, do you want to quit?
Dad.
- That's a caveman.
- that he does such a thing?
Call the emergency number.
- Yes.
- Sara, is he ... Is he with you?
Did you see H im?
- No and you?
No, he was just here.
It must be close.
- Why? What happened?
- He attacked Julian.
What? No, I can't believe that.
I think he'll be fine,
- but I'm going to the hospital with him.
- It must be Julian's fault.
Listen, the police are looking for him.
Just call me as soon as you see him, okay?
I just don't want him to get hurt.
I will do.
- Ho, ho
- Damn.
What is going on?
Sorry, madam,
cars may not continue after this point.
Support us and become VIP member
to remove all ads from www.OpenSubtitles.org